# ChlorIron2023
A repository for technoeconomic analysis of an iron electrowinning process from salt water

The chlor-iron TEA is based on an electrochemical process patented by Paul Kempler at the Oregon Center for Electrochemistry and first reported by Noble et al. 2023 (DOI:10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-d22xj)

The Jupyter Notebook attached can be used to compute the levelized cost of iron for various plant-design scenarios. The notebook requires the matplotlib and pandas libraries and produces figures formatted in a similar style to the above publication.

The Base case assumes a 20-year project with a discount rate, r = 8%, and an inflation rate, i = 3.8%, based on the average US inflation from 1960 to 2021. The capital cost of the plant was estimated on a MTCl2 day-1 basis, using published costs for a new membrane chlor-alkali plant (2000, converted to 2020 dollars). Capital was based on the total plant cost, so we did not include installation costs or balance of plant costs. The cost of replacing the stacks was assumed to be 20% of the total plant cost, occurring on a fixed maintenance schedule, and an annual cost of 5% of the total plant cost was included to account for maintenance. Labor costs were estimated based on reported peronnel numbers for zinc electrowinning facilities, with 61 employees at an average annual salary of $50,000 operating a 100 tonne per day plant. The plant capacity factor, the fraction of hours of the year where the cells were running, was assumed to be 0.95 and the Faradaic yield of collected Fe and Cl2 was assumed to be 0.90 and 0.95, respectively. Revenue from the sale of NaOH was assumed to be zero, assuming instead that it would be used to replenish electrolyte or be used for CO2 capture and mineralization. This could provide an additional revenue stream but was not included in the levelized cost of Fe. The base case for the sensitivity analysis assumed an electricity price of $75/MWh, an iron ore price of $120/MT, a cell voltage of 3.2 V, and a stack replacement schedule of 7 years. The levelized cost of Fe was calculated for a given model scenario such that the net present value of the plant was equal to zero (Equation S1)
<br><br>$NPV= ∑_{y=0}^n (R_y-O_y-S_y)/(1+r+i)^y -CAP $			(S1)
<br><br>
where Ry is the yearly revenue through hydrogen sales, Oy is the yearly operating costs due to electricity consumption, and Sy is the yearly system costs due to maintenance and stack replacements. The capital expense, CAP, was the system. Cash flow in years after the first year was adjusted by r and i.  Annual revenue was calculated from the product of the production capacity, Pj (MTj day-1), the capacity factor, Cj, and the levelized cost of Fe or Cl2, where LCOCl2 was held fixed at $150/MT (Equation S2).
<br><br>$R_y = 365 day/y ∑_j{(LCO_j ) * P_j * C_j}$				(S2)
<br><br>
